README.md, before:

# RBSM

## Short description about what is RBSM ?

RBSM is a simple social media API-only application based on Ruby lang. This app is used only on one small environment so no authentication is required. Where the user can input data, create a new post with a limit of 1000 characters and a maximum of one attachment. Users can also make comments, check some posts that contain certain hashtags and users can also see trending hashtags for the past 24 hours.

# Prerequisites to run the application locally

There are several things that need to be prepared to run this application locally, including:

## Requires

you can click the **link** for more detail.

1. Ruby with version `2.7.0` above. <a href="https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv">Link</a>
2. MySQL <a href="https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu-20-04">Link</a>


## Setup

1. Open your terminal and clone the App :

```sh
git clone https://github.com/hafizulf/rbsm.git
```

2. Install `bundler` to get app dependencies :

```sh
cd rbsm
gem install bundler
# check if the bundle is installed properly
bundle -v
# your bundle version
```

3. Install gem from `Gemfile` with this command :
```sh
bundle install
```

4. **Import database** :

```sh
cd db_schema
# check your mysql status
service mysql status
# if stopped, run it first
service mysql start
# begin import db
mysql -u username -p < database.sql
[Enter your password]
```

5. Setup environment. You can write it manually in db/conn.rb, or create a new `.env` file:

```sh
cd ..
nano .env
# paste and change these lines
export DB_HOST=127.0.0.1
export DB_NAME=social_media
export DB_USER=your-username
export DB_PASS=your-password
# save and exit
```

6. Run `.env` :

```sh
source .env
```

7. Run the app with this command :

```sh
ruby app.rb
```

8. Access the App from your browser :

```sh
http://localhost:4567
```

Commit message:

Update README.md: How to run tests suite

README.md, after:

# RBSM

## Short description about what is RBSM ?

RBSM is a simple social media API-only application based on Ruby lang. This app is used only on one small environment so no authentication is required. Where the user can input data, create a new post with a limit of 1000 characters and a maximum of one attachment. Users can also make comments, check some posts that contain certain hashtags and users can also see trending hashtags for the past 24 hours.

# Prerequisites to run the application locally

There are several things that need to be prepared to run this application locally, including:

## Requires

you can click the **link** for more detail.

1. Ruby with version `2.7.0` above. <a href="https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv">Link</a>
2. MySQL <a href="https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu-20-04">Link</a>


## Setup

1. Open your terminal and clone the App :

```sh
git clone https://github.com/hafizulf/rbsm.git
```

2. Install `bundler` to get app dependencies :

```sh
cd rbsm
gem install bundler
# check if the bundle is installed properly
bundle -v
# your bundle version
```

3. Install gem from `Gemfile` with this command :
```sh
bundle install
```

4. **Import database** :

```sh
cd db_schema
# check your mysql status
service mysql status
# if stopped, run it first
service mysql start
# begin import db
mysql -u username -p < database.sql
[Enter your password]
```

5. Setup environment. You can write it manually in db/conn.rb, or create a new `.env` file:

```sh
cd ..
nano .env
# paste and change these lines
export DB_HOST=127.0.0.1
export DB_NAME=social_media
export DB_USER=your-username
export DB_PASS=your-password
# save and exit
```

6. Run `.env` :

```sh
source .env
```

7. Create folders for attachment :
```sh
mkdir -p public/uploads/posts
mkdir -p public/uploads/comments
```

8. Run the app with this command :

```sh
ruby app.rb
```

9. Access the App from your browser :

```sh
http://localhost:4567
```

# How to run test suite

You can check this <a href="https://relishapp.com/rspec/docs/gettingstarted">Link</a> for installing `rspec` to your system. Or if you follow the steps above, then you are ready to run the test.

## Running Specs

```sh
# open your terminal and change directory to app folder
cd rbsm
# run unit test for all
rspec spec/
# run unit test for model/controller only
rspec spec/model
# run unit test for spesific file (in case for post model)
rspec spec/model/post.rb
# run unit test for spesific file (by line)
rspec spec/model/post.rb:10
```

## Code Coverage
You can check the result of test coverage by visiting `index.html` in Code Coverage Directory
